welcome everyone to confessions of an
SDR and I'm really excited to do this
show and partnership with communism
because we're going to be going and
finding sdrs and uncover some of the
funniest untold stories that you've
never heard of and some absurd stories
that you probably never heard of as well
so this will be a ton of fun and we're
our first victim I mean our first guest
here which is Brad uh so Brad tell us a
little bit more about yourself and we'll
dive into this confession
yeah I I mean um I'm enterprised as
direct cognizant I joined in April
um so what this is eight or nine months
now it's gone it's gone so quickly but
also it feels like I've been here my
whole life so it's one of those
um yeah so so every day pretty much the
life of an SDR cold calling cold
emailing and I've got quite a few uh
embarrassing moments as I'm hoping the
rest of you know the rest of the
community does I'm not alone in that but
uh we'll find out
yeah I mean look if you're if you've
been an SDR for for two weeks you
probably have something that is a
confession and probably something absurd
so I think everyone could probably
relate uh in all those different ways so
Brad let's hop right into it how we
start these is figuring out what your
confession is and then unpacking it from
there so what is your confession Brad
talk to us
well my My Confession is that um
I sent a video and I give some context
um but I sent a vidyard
um now I think a lot of sdr's use this
tool but of course it's just allows you
to record your screen and maybe present
the product and and also yourself to
send a video to a prospect anyway I I
hadn't been able to get this prospect on
the phone he was a very senior uh VP at
a tech company
um and so he was one of my key prospects
I hadn't been able to reach him properly
on on the phone so I thought I'll try
something different to cut through the
noise and send him a video and it's
going really really well I was really
happy with you know I think I'd you know
I thought I'd been really clever and I'd
found a case study and I was I was
showing him the platform
um and then I I looked over at my friend
stupidly
um who made me burst out laughing in the
middle of the recording and then I I
remember just trailing off and losing
track of of
um of my thought process and I thought
right bin that and I'll film another one
come to sending the email I didn't I
must have just not checked the link I
attached because I ended up sending that
one
um and and all I can pray for ever since
is that he never saw that email but uh
yeah it's pretty pretty embarrassing
that is my that is my confession
um probably doesn't sound too dramatic
but it definitely felt it at the moment
I mean I mean yeah like if it's sitting
a sitting at I'll take video to uh an
executive is is gonna give anyone a
little bit of a a blip on the arena when
it comes to their heart rate uh so and
when you were sitting that video was it
too you said like it was to a prospect
was that like a VP sales or cro like
what what was that too
yeah he was he was VP sales or he was VP
it was VP salesmere or he was vpme I
can't remember which it was
um I don't know if I should say the
company should I say the company or
um
um but but yeah it was very very big
tech company and it was one of my key
accounts and he was a key Prospect and
so as you can imagine when you re-watch
it and you realize you've sent that your
heart just drops
um to your stomach so yeah it was not a
great feeling
yeah I mean I don't think anyone would
have a good feeling about that as a
whole uh and so okay you you sent that
video sinking feeling and you're like oh
this is awful so let's talk about some
lessons that people can learn from this
confession I think the the first thing
and I've been there before I've sent
videos that I might have messed up I
have set one video where I sneezed right
uh that probably isn't something that
probably someone wanted to watch right
so one thing I always tell people is
before you send the video make sure that
you review it and you look at it to make
sure it's the right one you want to send
but anything that you uncovered or you
learned from that experience that you
now do every single time
well yeah I mean the most obvious one
which I think you already touched on
there is just double check especially
with a key process I mean you should be
doing all the time but especially with
the key Prospect just double check
everything you're sending them make sure
you know click that link before you send
it and make sure it's the right video
it's not an outtake as I sent
um but but then I think the the second
part to that Morgan is about just taking
a second and knowing that the world is
not going to crash and burn this this
Prospect probably has a full inbox and
is not going to see it straight away at
least that's what I've been praying for
um and then you know take it take a
minute and maybe if you can recall the
email try and do that just uh just
gather yourself as opposed to panicking
or letting the Panic take over that's
what I'd say yeah yeah you definitely
don't want the panic attack to cover
which leads into like the theme of all
this which is mindfulness like being
mindful on okay before I send this video
let me double check it let me make sure
that I'm good right I think those are
our big pieces as well but here's
another question I have for you so you
had those you had those outtakes do you
now spend do you try to get things done
in one take now like what is your
philosophy on creating videos because I
feel that I probably would have burnt
you a little bit to be like all right
I'm just gonna do this in one take so
there are no outtakes
well this the the worst part about this
whole thing is that it was relatively
early on in my uh SDR career here and it
was also
one of it it was very early on in in me
sending videos I didn't really use them
up until that point I was just a cold
caller
um but but since then I as you say I've
tried to do everything in one take I've
had experience now recording videos I
know the flow that sort of general gist
of my videos so I try my logic is if I
do it in one take then it's it's uh less
files to get confused what you get
confused with and and possibility of
sending the wrong ones so yeah try and
do it in one take from now on that's
what I do
and and what do you and what do you do
to make sure that you can get it done in
one take what are some steps that people
could listening in that they could do so
they don't end up you know sending the
wrong video for themselves
for me it's a matter it's similar to
cold calling in the yes we do lots of
different objections and we get
different different people different
icps but there's a general structure to
your cold calls right
um everyone's is different but you
should know your own so that you're not
left flustered on a cold call and I
think it's the same with videos so just
find your style find your groove and
find what's working for you over video
and then memorize that uh that structure
so that when you get on when you're
filming a video you know you know that
this is what I'm going to speak about
and I'm going to move to this I'm going
to move to this I'm going to move to
this and what that has allowed me to do
since is
um as as you say just film them in one
take and uh reduce reduce the uh
likelihood of sending the wrong thing
yeah no that makes sense there and I
want to also touch on something too uh
that we were talking about creating
those videos one take I love that you
talked about the framework of how to do
that so now people can do it another
thing I always suggest for people to do
is if you do do multiple videos like
delete all the ones that weren't good
before you send the one that you want to
send so then you can narrow it down to
the one so then it's like this is the
one that's the uh the one that you want
to do because I have definitely said
videos that are that that just were not
good or to be saying oh this didn't work
and then exit that one and what's the
worst and you're like I hope they never
view this it's like the one time as an
scr where it's like I hope they never
view this they'll open it don't click it
right stay away that's not the one you
need to look at yeah you spend your
whole your whole uh career trying to get
them to open the emails but when that
happens that's the last thing you want
to do
um well you can't you can't just let us
let us know that you you have done it
before Morgan you have to give us an
example come on I've shared I need you
to check this way do I feel quiet I know
this is this is your confession not mine
I'll get I'll give a quick one I mean I
mentioned it earlier so
um
I was making I was making a
um I was making a video and I sneezed
but there was more to that story so I
would do like five videos in the morning
um like
every every single morning to get better
at videos and I was like on my last
video and I had been I'd done all the
rest of them as a want take right and so
I sneezed on the last one and was like
oh man that's that's a lot of stuff that
came out right and then I and then I
like kept going uh and then I was like
okay well I just wanted to get in the
flow to make sure I could deliver the
the pitch or whatever and so I ended up
doing another video because I was like
all right I just sneeze and like stuff
went everywhere so that's probably
disgusting right no one wants to see
that so I made another one but then I
didn't follow my rule and I didn't
delete that outtake and I sent the one
where I was sneezing saying like oh like
hey like
look at all something went everywhere so
yeah uh no one I mean they so no one
responded but they did click and watch
the video so
it's definitely in the Hall of Shame
it's definitely been presented probably
in a in a meeting somewhere I don't even
I honestly don't even remember the
company at this point because it was so
so long ago but yeah it's definitely in
a hall of Shame somewhere it's
definitely been roasted probably to a
certain degree but that was that was not
good man that was not fun no I mean yeah
at least I didn't uh but I feel a little
bit less stupid now for for doing
something like that I guess the lesson
that I'm learning is to follow those
rules that you that you just said and
hopefully we won't be prospects us not
or or uh laughing again yeah please
don't yeah I have more confessions than
I can count so I have my face a lot of
things that people probably have gone
through as well and we talked about okay
we talked about things on how to go
about that uh one of the things that you
mentioned as well was like it rocks you
a little bit and you felt a little bit
mentally off as well which in my case
like you know no one wants to see
well it's not going all over the place
so I was like oh they clicked the video
like heart sank so what do you do now to
make sure that you stay calm in these
moments uh if you do make mistakes
because they will happen but how do you
stay mindful of okay I'm getting a
little stressed about this I'm like
really pressed about this how do you
remain calm in those situations
yeah the first thing you you touched on
there was that actually understanding
that these mistakes are always going to
happen you're not ever going to escape
them because
um although hopefully less of less
mistakes will come with a bit of
experience
um you know you're always going to make
them so I think understanding and
admitting that to yourself that that
every day is not going to be perfect and
you're always gonna gonna make mistakes
that's that's the biggest part so that
actually when they happen you're already
kind of mentally prepared for that you
know it's not not a massive shock to the
system I think if you walk in expecting
you know I've had a few years experience
at this and and I'm not going to make
mistakes anymore when they when they do
come along it will probably be quite a
shock to you but in terms of of handling
that in the moment once it's happened
um I would say it's about just taking a
second stepping back
um understanding the world's not going
to end you know there's a there's a 90
chance I mean think Morgan as you just
said there like sdrs we we try and get
prospects to open our emails all the
time and it doesn't always work so I
think remembering that and they're
probably not going to open it
um is is good and then you can just you
can gather yourself and you can just
hopefully learn from it hopefully learn
from it
are there are there things that you do
outside of work to
get in that mindset I think one of the
hardest things for any SDR any
salesperson to have is to just be like
hey like this is the end of the world
but it feels like the end of the world
because you've made a mistake that could
potentially like not get your response
or I don't know if it's really bad get
you fired right I don't think that's
gonna happen to most people but that's
what that's what people's immediate
thoughts are so are there things that
you're doing to help that what that
mindset and be clear
it's so number one is
um try and try and keep a network of
other people in your industry right so I
mean link everyone is on LinkedIn these
days and um that presents an opportunity
to have conversations with other people
that are doing the same job as you
um and to understand that uh uh we're
all making those mistakes and
you know you check your LinkedIn feed
and you hear these stories come up quite
often so I think if you if you if you
stay active on those those platforms
where you share a network with other
people doing the same thing you realize
that actually they're not as silly or as
serious as perhaps your brain is
spiraling you into believing in those
moments so just it's about
contextualizing that
um but in terms of
I mean I don't know you were you
expecting maybe that I was going to say
something like meditation like
mindfulness that's your answer
it's your answer
you know what I actually should though I
really want to um I I loved to get into
the habit of meditating or like they say
that journaling is quite good like
reflecting on your day I'm sure that
would help so actually
um I would love to be able to say that I
do that but I don't uh however I'll make
it New Year's resolution
there you go I I would say
so I've done morning
generally I do an afternoon journaling
and
I think in sales the actually the
afternoon journaling and the morning
routine is always important but I think
the afternoon journaling is helpful
because it allows you to really reflect
on how the day went where in most
scenarios we go make cold calls we do
emails and then we just go through that
process and then it's like all right I'm
just gonna move on now I think being I
think like really thinking about what
you're doing and how you're going about
it is really helpful to a degree because
then you can reflect on what you could
do better what you should stop Etc so I
think that piece on how to continuously
focus on impacting your life and also
your sales career by reflecting in a
journal afternoon couldn't be helpful
yeah but I think everyone everyone goes
about how they handle stress and being
calm across the board all in all
different types of ways
well and and the the other thing you
said there about journaling in the
afternoon to reflect right I'm sure that
again and this is assumptive because I
haven't yet built that habit but I'm
sure through building that habit you'd
probably get to a state of mind where
you would see every mistake you make is
actually just a an opportunity at the
end of the day to reflect and then learn
um so it seems like yeah maybe I do need
to get into this because
um SDR in can be pretty can be pretty
manic so maybe a maybe a journal to
reflect on would be I mean any aside
from that anything else you do in the
moment to like you know bring the bring
the temperature down a little bit or
yeah yeah so my my answer is Brad will
be a little as I'm gonna assume I'm
gonna put it that way
that's what people would describe them
as however I have noticed that I'm very
emotionally composed across the board I
mean I think that
there are going to be situations where
like you do get stressed you get annoyed
and like what's going on but I started
once I started doing these things like I
don't there's a lot of things that truly
bother me so I do cryotherapy so
essentially what that is is like the ice
box so you can only be in there for like
three minutes so I sit in there for like
three minutes I do it on the coldest
temperature tells you how often I go and
so that for me is like it uh calms you
down it like lowers lowers like all the
different anxiety that you have like
it's been really helpful for me so
that's why I go I also do like an
infrared sauna so it's different than a
regular sauna so what it does is it it's
not based on the heat that they're
pumping into the room there is heat in
the room but it goes like into like your
I think it's like your bloodstream or
something like that the way that they
describe it and basically it helps you
sweat from like inwards to outwards so
it's like really good for like getting
rid of toxins it's really good for like
a de-stressor it's like anti-aging so I
do that and then uh I don't
I don't do as much of meditating I do
pray but I don't do as much meditating
um and then journaling I do from time to
time I don't do it as often as I used to
so it's something that I actually want
to get back into so I'll start diving
into that and then my favorite one that
I do but I don't do it like every single
day because it'd be way too it'd be way
too much as float takes I don't know if
you've heard of the float tanks before
it's like oh yeah and there's like yeah
yeah
that has been that has been absolutely
incredible for me
well I think I actually just you saying
this reminds me of something I um a big
part of I think staying calm at that
moment is understanding that
um or just have it taking the
perspective that
um once things are done sometimes it's
completely out of your control and uh um
you know you sitting there stressing or
getting worried is going to do
absolutely nothing to to change the
situation so I think we should take that
view you can look at things a little bit
more logically and you just bring your
your internal stress down but you said
as well about um like cryotherapy
um I not as Extreme as that but I do
have cold showers I only have cold
showers my mum thinks I'm really weird
um whenever I go home and I leave it on
cold if I have a shower if I go back to
her house and I have a cold shower I get
yeah very angry text messages so but
yeah I actually do find you get out the
shower and you feel really
um I just love it I just wouldn't I
don't think I would have a hot shower
again I don't know if that's weird to
say
no it's it's it's not like I know one of
my friends he Lo he like loves the cold
shower he's like I love it starts my day
and I get fired up and I'm like all
right dude like hey do what you gotta do
like I do the yeah oh yeah what do you
say
sorry I didn't mean to cut you I was
just saying that they call it like mine
over body is in you like the idea of a
cold shower does not sound appealing to
anyone if you can train your mind uh to
um to just overcome that overcome what
your body's telling you then that
actually gives you a lot of uh there's
an opportunity there for for the rest of
your life as well
I I absolutely agree that's why I do the
cryotherapy as well because it's just so
helpful to just get in there mental okay
this is how I want to go about it but I
mean also like I said like you got to be
able to come in there mentally be like
this is what I'm gonna do because yeah
it can be very very like overwhelming if
you don't prepare yourself mentally to
get in that cold shower but I think you
know in everything that we're talking
about like you have to figure out like
kind of in conclusion of everything
we're saying you have to find what is
going to be helpful for you so that you
have
a calm demeanor about how you go about
things and your mindfulness increases
because I I just know that the rep said
I know that are successful they don't
let the mistakes or the cold call errors
get to them that much that that stops
them from taking action that they need
to in their momentum there are things
that are going to happen and you know we
talked about the video piece like that
will happen to you Brad most people
probably like probably would have quit
like they would have been too stressed
they would allowed you I'm like I can't
do this anymore and you have to just
have that mindset of like hey that
happened it's out of my control now I
can't go back in the past how do I make
sure that doesn't happen again and the
tips that we've given you so far are
ways that you can do that right like
make sure that you're deleting videos
that are outtakes like looking at the
video looking at okay what what am I
putting in this email or if you even you
could even call it out and say hey I
made a mistake if you want to right or
making sure that you're doing one take
all the things we talked about are ways
that you can avoid that uh what we both
did but I think it's important that I
think overall if you are mentally
composed and you can keep a steady
mindset any mistake that you make will
obviously not be good in the moment be
able to immensely move on from it
yeah and I have to say when I came when
I came into this I did not think that I
was going to be discussing cold showers
um as as a as a piece of advice well
actually
um I think it does it is part of like a
larger
um you know being an SDR is actually it
can be an incredibly tough job it's not
always a nine to five you do take it
home with you a lot and um I think to to
mindset is a massive part of performance
in sales
um I know that can seem quite
cringe-worthy but um it's it's so so
true and it's often the differentiator
between top performers and perhaps
people who are struggling and so if you
can learn early on as I'm trying to do
um sort of mental ways of almost coping
mechanisms to deal with stress when it
arises and to deal with problems when
they arise and you can do that through a
number of ways that we've discussed but
as you say it's about finding finding
your own coping mechanism and hopefully
that's that's going to really give you
the mindset to overcome these things
when they come up
absolutely well Brad thank you so much
for coming on the confessions of an SDR
hopefully that uh maybe some people feel
like okay my my rule is not as bad as I
thought right from both of our
confessions uh and as we wrap what
advice would you give to all the other
sdrs out there
that'll start now
but
um
do it depends what you want do you want
like a a real actionable piece of advice
like a real practical piece of advice or
do you want something more General
um let's get something practical let's
get something let's get something that
people can go do right now I was gonna
say um I've already I've already said
the cold showers so let me try something
a little bit more practical
um
I something that I've actually started
recently doing which may seem incredibly
obvious but uh has helped me out a lot I
now double dial my prospects so I have a
Power Hour in the morning and a Power
Hour in the afternoon and what I try to
do now at the end of those if I've made
say 35 calls in that morning Power Hour
I'm gonna go back before lunch and make
sure I try all of those numbers again
which
um you know you might not think to do
initially as obvious as it may seem but
the past few weeks I've had
two three four additional connects
during those power outs that I just
wouldn't have had before and some of
those have been meetings or callbacks or
or really good pipeline for me as an SDR
so I guess my most practical piece of
advice would be to try that for yourself
and see if that works see if that has an
improvement on your results it's worked
for me so far are you are you using the
same number when you do those double
dials are you switching it up
I'm using the same number because my
hope is that
um someone could be I mean as silly as
it sounds we're calling real people
right so they could be in the bathroom
they could be having a coffee break they
could be in a meeting I'm just calling
back from the same number hoping they
pick up or they wonder who's this guy
calling me twice he must want something
and it's worked for me so far Morgan so
I'll keep you updated
hey look yeah keep us updated hey look
if it's working keep trying it uh keep
testing it out hopefully some people out
there you go test it out yourself and as
we as we wrap here right are there any
shout outs or anything else you want to
mention before we get out
yeah that that definitely is
um shout out I'm just trying to think uh
I'm gonna give a shout out to my manager
Orla Pew
um because when things like this happen
and uh we're on the confessions of an
SDI here when these things happen he's
uh a real Steady Hand and a steady head
at dealing with these things so he's
he's a good good bloke to go to
um who else do I want to shout out I
missed a shout out I did something like
this the other day and I am gonna I'm
gonna shout out Al paves who's an a here
at cognizant he uh is fantastic and is a
massive support to me he's really really
kind man so yeah that's those are my
shout outs Morgan so thank you for
giving me a bit of time to speak today
yeah absolutely thanks for uh coming
into your confession uh hopefully people
learned from it got some tips and maybe
some people will take some cold showers
but maybe you start a movement we'll see
so yeah
okay look she started a movement who
knows uh appreciate you coming on
hopefully again y'all enjoyed this
episode and we'll see you all next time